Okay, so
we just talked about page options.
We also have options that apply
to individual links in our app.
In this exercise here, we have
a slow-a route and a slow-b route, and
both of those have artificial delays
like the ones that we've seen elsewhere,
meaning it takes a long
time to navigate to them.
If I click on this link,
the page doesn't update until
that second delay has gone by.
Now, ideally you would just
make your navigation quicker,
you would speed up whatever the bottleneck
is in your data fetching, but
sometimes that's not an option.
SvelteKit cannot make your
navigations faster in that case, but
it can make things seem
faster by anticipating them.
When an anchor element, an A element has
a data-SvelteKit preload data attribute,
SvelteKit will begin the navigation as
soon as the user hovers over the link,
if they're using a desktop device or
if they're on a mobile,
as soon as they tap it.
So, let's add that to the first link in
our navigation, open your layout.svelte.
And down here,
we're gonna add that data-sveltekit
preload data attribute, and
now if we go to slow b,
which doesn't have the attribute,
it's gonna take that full second.
But, if we go over to slow a and
click the link, then, it'll take
a second minus however long you are
hovering over the link in the first place.
So, it'll be noticeably faster even
if it's a more typical move over and
click, we are still saving
a few 100 milliseconds there.
So, in practice, even though it might
not sound like it is gonna make much of
a difference to save a couple of
100 milliseconds, here or there,
it is very often the difference between
a navigation that feels sluggish and
a navigation that feels snappy.
Now, you can put that attribute on
individual links like we have done here.
Or you can put it on any element
that contains links, right?
So, we could put it on the nav,
for example.
And in fact, when you set up a new
SvelteKit project, by default,
that attribute will exist on
the body element in your app.html,
although we don't have
it here in the tutorial.
You can customize the behavior further
by specifying a value for preload data.
You can use preload data equals hover,
which is the default.
Or you can specify tap,
in which case preloading will only
begin when the user
actually taps on the link.
Or you can turn it off altogether,
in which case the navigation won't
begin until a click event has
been registered on the link.
All right, the reason that you would
do that is that sometimes the behavior
that comes out of the box,
will result in false positives, and
that might not be what you want.
You might wanna preserve data, or you
might wanna make sure that when the user
clicks on a link, that you're
getting the up to the minute data,
if you're doing something that's heavily
real-time, like a stock tracker app or
something of that nature.
If you don't wanna do any
preloading of data at all,
then you can still preload the code for
a new route.
By changing this data here to code, then,
we will preload any code that is needed
for SvelteKit to navigate to the new
route, but it won't run any data fetching.
And this gives us a few new options.
You can preload code eagerly,
which means that it will get the code for
every length on the page
after every navigation.
You can set viewport which means that
SvelteKit will fetch the code for
the new route as a link
enters the viewport, or
you can use the same options
as with preload data.
And finally, you can also initiate
preloading programmatically if you need to
by importing the preload code and
preload data functions from
the app navigation module.
As we've seen, ordinarily, when you
navigate between pages SvelteKit does that
without reloading the page,
it does a client side navigation instead.
So, here if we navigate between
the homepage and the about page, you'll
see that timer at the bottom which is in
our layout, that just keeps on ticking up.
In some cases you might wanna
disable client side routing.
And you can do so
by adding the data-SvelteKit
reload attribute on any individual link or
again on any element that contains links.
So, let's go into our
nav in the layout.svelte
component, and add data-sveltekit-reload.
And now, you'll see as long as you're
on the page the timer is ticking up.
But as soon as we navigate,
it's gonna reset the timer,
because we've reloaded
the document from the server.
So, you can learn more about the link
options that are available and
the values that you can put on them
in the link options documentation on
the SvelteKit website.